---
layout: post
title: 累 vs 細 - The Movie Method
tags:
- kanji
- MovieMethod
- study methods
categories: Japanese
---
After [Anki](http://ankisrs.net/), the best thing to happen to my Japanese is
the [Movie Method](http://drmoviemethod.blogspot.com/). Once kanji stopped
being intimidating and began to feel like a tool, Japanese really started to
"click." But as much as I love the Movie Method, it does have its occasional
quirks.

<!-- more -->
Yesterday I was reading something and saw this character: 累. I thought, "okay,
**brain **and **camera** (these are my components for 田 and 糸 respectively)…
That gives me 'dainty' (duly remembering the scene I chose from 花より団子)."
Great! Except… I was completely wrong! I had confused 細 for 累.

So how do you handle this situation with the Movie Method?

{% img left http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_ldqld9z9mU1qeiyu3.jpg %}

I already have a scene for 細, so now I want to learn 累. The natural thing to
do is to build on what I already know. The natural thing is _wrong!_ If I
create a scene with, say, a **brain** on top of a **camera**, I _will_ get
confused. A month from now when I see the character, I'll only remember
**brain** and **camera**, and I won't remember the nuanced difference between
a "brain **and** camera" vs. a "brain** on **camera." Instead, I'm going to
choose a completely different component to use to remember this new kanji.
Brain on camera kind of makes me think of one of those **War of the Worlds**
machines, so I'm going to choose this as my component for 累.

Okay, so now you're probably thinking this is dumb because I've just created a
new component which is the same as the whole kanji anyway. This is true, but
it is worth it! It'll be easier for me to keep these 2 similar-looking kanji
separate (this is especially true when I'm trying to write the character from
memory). **And** if there's ever another kanji that uses this new component
(and there always is!) then I've already done the ground work and it'll be
easy to learn. It scales.

This is a long post about something that feels quite pedantic, even to me. But
I think it's something which is both unintuitive and critical to making
heisig/movie method work.

