---
layout: post
title: Haruki Murakami's short stories - TV People
tags:
- reading
- murakami
- short story
categories: Japanese
---
I'm finally getting to the point where I can start to read a bit of Japanese.
That is, I can follow the gist of what I read without constant interruption to
look up words and kanji. Actually, I've been actively resisting using the
dictionary. That's just not how I read English when I was a kid; and that's
not fun and not the way to stay motivated!

I've been reading short stories by Haruki Murakami. I've got two of his short
story collections, _Blind Willow, Sleeping Woman_ and _The Elephant Vanishes_.
At first I went through and read all the super short stories. Ten pages or
less was my rule. I find that I can get through these in a single sitting.
They're a nice size, but the stories aren't all that satisfying. Usually no
real plot or character development. What do you expect in 10 pages, right?

<!-- more -->
_TV People_ was the first Murakami story published in the New Yorker. I
usually enjoy me a good New Yorker short story, so I was curious to see what a
Murakami New Yorker story looks like. _TV People_ is more satisfying than the
super short stories I've been reading. There's (a bit of) a plot, and you get
to spend some time with the protagonist. Honestly though, I don't like it. I
don't understand it, is another way to word it. To me this story is just a
vague ennui / apathy metaphor blah blah blah. In reading through these
Murakami stories, the cover of my childhood copy of _The Emperor's New
Clothes_ flashes into my head over and over. Presumably the clever people at
the New Yorker know something that I don't, and there really is a _there_
there in there somewhere, but beats me if I can find it.

On the upside, Murakami is great for students of Japanese (like me!). It's so
accessible, it can give you a false sense of confidence. I sometimes go
paragraphs and paragraphs knowing every word, feeling really good about my
Japanese. That is, until I pick up a newspaper or even a tricky children's
book. There were a few passages in _TV People_ that I found tricky, but most
of it was straightforward.

Reading Alfred Birnbaum's translation of _TV People_ from the New Yorker, you
really get a sense of how simple the language is. I almost feel as if, in
translating Murakami into English, the translator needs to doll up the prose a
bit to make it feel natural. But hey, I'm the one who thinks everyone's naked
here, so I would say that…

If you're just starting to read Murakami, then there are two kanji you should
know. Murakami _loves_ these kanji!

### 訊

訊く・訊ねる is just a fancy way of writing 聞く・ 尋ねる (kiku and tazuneru). There's
probably some nuance I'm missing here, but anyway, you'll see this character
used over and over so best get used to it.

### 眺

Murakami's characters love to 眺める (nagameru - stare/gaze). This one is
actually a standard use kanji, but I didn't know it until I started reading
Murakami.

